All right.
In this video we're gonna look at entities and symbols.
Real quick OK.
So we're going to create a new file called Ten underscore and let's just call this entities dot HMO.
All right.
So we're going to put in our boilerplate say entities
so the first thing I want to show you is a non breaking space.
I'm to put a comment here and say non breaking space.
So if I put a paragraph and I say Hello my name is Brad and I run this and live server or you open your
web page so we get to sell a paragraph that says Hello my name is Brad.
Let's say that I wanted to put a bunch of whitespace.
OK so where you see no text.
It's called whitespace.
Let's say I wanted to put a bunch of it in between is and Brad.
Like if I go over here and I just put a bunch of spaces like that and they save.
There's no difference.
OK.
It doesn't in the browser is not going to see these spaces and render it like that.
If you wanted to do that for some reason and there's not too many cases where you would do this but
if you did you could use a non breaking space which is an HD female entity.
So it's actually going to be Ampersand and B S P semicolon.
Remember the in the last video at the end they showed you the copyright entity which was Ampersand copy
semicolon and you can look these up on W3 schools that you can find a list of all the entities symbols
and stuff like that.
But let's go ahead and save this and you see how it knocked it over a little bit.
If I go ahead and grab this again and put another one let's put a couple of them and save it we'll keep
pushing it over.
So if you ever need to push a line over like that you can use a non braking space.
So next thing I'm going to show you is how we can use or how we should use angle brackets so greater
than and less than obviously they're used in each team all tags.
But what if we wanted to actually put them on the in the each team page and say greater than and less
than.
So put a paragraph and let's just say 5 2 maybe this was a page that had some math equations or something
we'll say five is greater than two.
If we save that it does actually show up on the page but in some browsers it can actually get confused
because it looks like the beginning or actually the end of each team.
I'll tag.
So usually when you do this if you want to actually put an angle bracket displayed on the page you would
you've used the entity Ampersand G T semicolon K GTI is greater than so let's save this and you'll see
that it renders the same thing OK.
If we wanted to do a less than let's actually we'll just comp copy this down and let's say let's do
one is less than two we could use LTE by save that you'll see one is less than two.
There's also numbers for entities as well.
So I'm actually going to copy this down again the greater then and instead of doing G T I'm gonna do.
Number sixty two and save and notice said it again gives me the greater than so the number for less
than is actually sixty.
So we would do Ampersand number sine 60 and save and you'll see it gives us the same thing.
Now most cases you're going to use the greater than and less than.
But I just wanted to show you that you can actually use the number.
OK.
We already saw the copyright but I'm going to put it in here anyways.
So we're going to do Ampersand copy semicolon.
This is the one that I use frequently.
We also have the trademark.
So it's two Ampersand and this is our e.g.
And if we save that and you can see it gives all not the trademark the little R if we want to do like
currency stuff.
Dollar Signs pound stuff like that
we can do.
Let's see for
obviously dollar signs we can use that the actual key.
But let's say we wanted to sense we could do Ampersand sent save and it gives us a little sense sine
OK.
We can also do for working with foreign currencies like pound ups can do pound we can do yen we can
do Euro save that we get all those different symbols we can even do use suits like card suits OK.
Such as spades.
So if I wanted to do Ampersand spades semicolon.
There we go.
And of course we have the other three.
So if we want
clubs
hearts and diamonds is actually D I A M S guy so yeah I mean you're probably not going to use these
very much but I did just want to show you guys it.
Also if you want to display something in like computer code font you can use the code tag.
So let's say computer code.
So it's a code which is a tag and let's say we wanted to display p p p p code now in P P you start your
code with this right here.
This is an opening p p tag and this is a closing p p tag and you could put like Echo string Hello.
I don't expect you to understand any of this but let's say we wanted to display this on the page and
we wanted it to look like code so we would replace this with the entity of less than.
So we'll do Ampersand LTE semicolon and then let's replace this with Ampersand GMT semicolon and we'll
save that.
And now down here notice that it actually looks like code.
OK so if you wanted to put a code snippet into your page maybe it was it's a programming site or something
like that.
That's how you would do it.
There's also a tag called K BD for keyboard.
So if we wanted to put like a paragraph and we were giving instructions to say save the file by pressing
and let's say we were telling them how to save a file.
So control s we could put a K BD tag and we could put in C T R L plus s we'll do like that and save
and now save the file by pressing control s and notice the control s is kind of it's in that computer
code font.
OK.
So it's again not these these aren't things that you're going to use all the time but it's something
that is good to know.
And again if you want to look at all of the different the different entities and symbols available in
each HTML you can go to the W three schools it's a like I said it's a great reference site.
All right.
So in the next video we're going to start to look at each team of five semantic tags.